examples/proof_pipeline/README.md, before:

# ProofPipeline - SnakeBridge v3 Example

This example builds a multi-step proof grading pipeline using three Python libraries:

- **SymPy** for symbolic normalization
- **pylatexenc** for LaTeX handling
- **math_verify** for verification

The demo runs the live pipeline and requires Python libraries installed.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd examples/proof_pipeline
mix deps.get
mix compile
mix run --no-start -e Demo.run
```

The first compile auto-installs the Python runtime and packages (managed via uv).
This demo wraps execution in `SnakeBridge.run_as_script/2` so Python workers are
cleaned up when the script exits. Defaults are `exit_mode: :auto` and
`stop_mode: :if_started`; set `SNAKEPIT_SCRIPT_EXIT` to override exit behavior
when no explicit options are provided.

## What It Does

1. Parse LaTeX into nodes with pylatexenc
2. Convert and simplify with SymPy
3. Verify with math_verify

## Generated Structure

```
lib/snakebridge_generated/
├── math_verify/
│   └── __init__.ex
├── pylatexenc/
│   └── __init__.ex
└── sympy/
    └── __init__.ex

.snakebridge/manifest.json
snakebridge.lock
```

## Interactive Usage

```bash
iex -S mix
```

```elixir
iex> ProofPipeline.sample_input()

iex> ProofPipeline.run(ProofPipeline.sample_input())
# requires Python runtime + libs
```

## Key Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `mix.exs` | Declares Python libraries via `python_deps` |
| `lib/proof_pipeline.ex` | Pipeline logic |
| `lib/demo.ex` | Demo script |
| `lib/snakebridge_generated/**/*.ex` | Generated bindings |
| `.snakebridge/manifest.json` | Symbol manifest |
| `snakebridge.lock` | Runtime identity lock |

Commit message:

Release v0.13.0: Process defaults and test helpers
This release introduces process-scoped runtime defaults and enhanced testing
utilities, alongside significant improvements to documentation generation.

Core Runtime Enhancements
- Added SnakeBridge.RuntimeContext for managing process-level defaults.
- Introduced SnakeBridge.with_runtime/2 macro for scoped configuration.
- Added SnakeBridge.script macros as the preferred script execution API.
- Implemented rt, args, and opts helpers for cleaner call syntax.

Testing Improvements
- Added SnakeBridge.TestCase CaseTemplate for automatic setup and teardown.
- Simplified pool selection and session management in ExUnit tests.

Documentation and Wrapper Generation
- Python class and module docstrings are now included in Elixir @moduledoc.
- Added version and metadata tracking for Python stdlib and packages.
- Support for docs_url in python_deps to link to external Python documentation.
- Added Docs.nest_modules_by_prefix to improve HexDocs navigation tree.
- Markdown converter now wraps grid tables in code blocks for compatibility.

Manifest and Introspection
- Manifest now tracks module-level metadata and docstring sources.
- Python introspection script now fetches module versions and docstrings.
- Generator now accepts module_docs and lock_data to enrich wrappers.

Maintenance
- Updated all example projects to version 0.13.0.
- Regenerated all example wrappers with the new documentation layout.
- Improved session resolution in the CallbackRegistry.

examples/proof_pipeline/README.md, after:

# ProofPipeline - SnakeBridge v3 Example

This example builds a multi-step proof grading pipeline using three Python libraries:

- **SymPy** for symbolic normalization
- **pylatexenc** for LaTeX handling
- **math_verify** for verification

The demo runs the live pipeline and requires Python libraries installed.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd examples/proof_pipeline
mix deps.get
mix compile
mix run --no-start -e Demo.run
```

The first compile auto-installs the Python runtime and packages (managed via uv).
This demo wraps execution in `SnakeBridge.script do ... end` so Python workers
are cleaned up when the script exits. Defaults are `exit_mode: :auto` and
`stop_mode: :if_started`; use `SnakeBridge.script(opts) do ... end` for custom
lifecycle options.

## What It Does

1. Parse LaTeX into nodes with pylatexenc
2. Convert and simplify with SymPy
3. Verify with math_verify

## Generated Structure

```
lib/snakebridge_generated/
├── math_verify/
│   └── __init__.ex
├── pylatexenc/
│   └── __init__.ex
└── sympy/
    └── __init__.ex

.snakebridge/manifest.json
snakebridge.lock
```

## Interactive Usage

```bash
iex -S mix
```

```elixir
iex> ProofPipeline.sample_input()

iex> ProofPipeline.run(ProofPipeline.sample_input())
# requires Python runtime + libs
```

## Key Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `mix.exs` | Declares Python libraries via `python_deps` |
| `lib/proof_pipeline.ex` | Pipeline logic |
| `lib/demo.ex` | Demo script |
| `lib/snakebridge_generated/**/*.ex` | Generated bindings |
| `.snakebridge/manifest.json` | Symbol manifest |
| `snakebridge.lock` | Runtime identity lock |
