examples/math_demo/README.md, before:

# MathDemo - SnakeBridge v3 Example

This example demonstrates SnakeBridge v3 compile-time generation, discovery APIs,
and live runtime calls via Snakepit.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd examples/math_demo
mix deps.get
mix compile
mix run -e Demo.run
```

This demo wraps execution in `Snakepit.run_as_script/2` to ensure Python workers
clean up on exit (prevents orphan warnings on subsequent runs).

## What Happens

1. `mix compile` runs the SnakeBridge pre-pass.
2. Python libraries are read from the `python_deps` project key in `mix.exs`.
3. SnakeBridge scans, introspects, and generates modules under `lib/snakebridge_generated/`.
4. Generated source, manifest, and lock are committed to git.

## Generated Structure

```
lib/snakebridge_generated/
├── json.ex
└── math.ex

.snakebridge/manifest.json
snakebridge.lock
```

## Interactive Usage

```bash
iex -S mix
```

```elixir
# Discovery
iex> Math.__functions__() |> length()
3

iex> Math.__search__("sq")
[%{name: :sqrt, summary: "Return the square root.", relevance: 0.9}]

iex> Json.__classes__()
[...]

iex> MathDemo.generated_structure()
{:ok, %{root: ".../lib/snakebridge_generated", libraries: ["json", "math"]}}

iex> MathDemo.discover()
:ok

iex> MathDemo.compute_sample()
{:ok, %{cos: 1.0, sin: 0.84, sqrt: 1.41421356237}}
```

## Key Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `mix.exs` | Declares Python libraries via `python_deps` |
| `config/config.exs` | Compile-time options only |
| `lib/snakebridge_generated/*.ex` | Generated bindings (committed) |
| `.snakebridge/manifest.json` | Symbol manifest (committed) |
| `snakebridge.lock` | Runtime identity lock (committed) |
| `lib/demo.ex` | Demo script |
| `lib/math_demo.ex` | Discovery helpers |

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- Snakepit runtime (enabled in config/config.exs)
- Auto-install runs during compile (`auto_install: :dev`)

Commit message:

refactor: align with Snakepit 0.9.0 script lifecycle semantics
Add SnakeBridge.run_as_script/2 wrapper with safe defaults:
- exit_mode: :auto (when no exit options or env vars are set)
- stop_mode: :if_started

This centralizes script execution behavior and prevents unintended VM
stops in embedded usage scenarios.

Changes:
- Add ScriptOptions module for option resolution with env var support
- Add ScriptShutdownForwarder for telemetry event forwarding
- Update all examples to use SnakeBridge.run_as_script/2
- Add dynamic streaming support in Runtime with fallback to legacy
- Replace flaky Process.sleep calls with polling-based eventually/2
- Move TestHelpers to dedicated support file for reuse
- Add integration tests for script exit behavior
- Update Snakepit dependency to ~> 0.9.0
- Add supertester 0.4.0 for robust test infrastructure

The wrapper respects explicit user options and environment variables
(SNAKEPIT_SCRIPT_EXIT, legacy SNAKEPIT_SCRIPT_HALT) without override.

examples/math_demo/README.md, after:

# MathDemo - SnakeBridge v3 Example

This example demonstrates SnakeBridge v3 compile-time generation, discovery APIs,
and live runtime calls via Snakepit.

## Quick Start

```bash
cd examples/math_demo
mix deps.get
mix compile
mix run -e Demo.run
```

This demo wraps execution in `SnakeBridge.run_as_script/2` to ensure Python workers
clean up on exit (prevents orphan warnings on subsequent runs). Defaults are
`exit_mode: :auto` and `stop_mode: :if_started`; set `SNAKEPIT_SCRIPT_EXIT` to
override exit behavior when no explicit options are provided.

## What Happens

1. `mix compile` runs the SnakeBridge pre-pass.
2. Python libraries are read from the `python_deps` project key in `mix.exs`.
3. SnakeBridge scans, introspects, and generates modules under `lib/snakebridge_generated/`.
4. Generated source, manifest, and lock are committed to git.

## Generated Structure

```
lib/snakebridge_generated/
├── json.ex
└── math.ex

.snakebridge/manifest.json
snakebridge.lock
```

## Interactive Usage

```bash
iex -S mix
```

```elixir
# Discovery
iex> Math.__functions__() |> length()
3

iex> Math.__search__("sq")
[%{name: :sqrt, summary: "Return the square root.", relevance: 0.9}]

iex> Json.__classes__()
[...]

iex> MathDemo.generated_structure()
{:ok, %{root: ".../lib/snakebridge_generated", libraries: ["json", "math"]}}

iex> MathDemo.discover()
:ok

iex> MathDemo.compute_sample()
{:ok, %{cos: 1.0, sin: 0.84, sqrt: 1.41421356237}}
```

## Key Files

| File | Purpose |
|------|---------|
| `mix.exs` | Declares Python libraries via `python_deps` |
| `config/config.exs` | Compile-time options only |
| `lib/snakebridge_generated/*.ex` | Generated bindings (committed) |
| `.snakebridge/manifest.json` | Symbol manifest (committed) |
| `snakebridge.lock` | Runtime identity lock (committed) |
| `lib/demo.ex` | Demo script |
| `lib/math_demo.ex` | Discovery helpers |

## Requirements

- Python 3.7+
- Snakepit runtime (enabled in config/config.exs)
- Auto-install runs during compile (`auto_install: :dev`)
